add changelog for breaking change in ai-agent (#4686)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/application-enablement/ai-agents-2-0-0-use-streamable-http-for-mcp-server.md

---
date: ""

> title: "AI Agent Manager uses Streamable HTTP transport for internal mcp server instead of HTTP with SSE"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "AI Agent Manager now uses Streamable HTTP transport for internal MCP server instead of HTTP with SSE"
```

product_area: "Application enablement & solutions"
change_type:
  - value: "change-3BQrQ6adS"
    label: "API change"
component:
  - value: "component-YbYJ3gLU_"
    label: "Web SDK"
build_artifact:
  - value: "tc--gWykZ78v"
    label: "ai-agents"
ticket: "MTM-66714"
version: "2.0.0"
---
{{< c8y-admon-preview >}}
This feature is in Public Preview, that is, it is not enabled by default and may be subject to change in the future.
{{< /c8y-admon-preview >}}

> The AI Agent Manager has previously offered an MCP server that used the **HTTP with SSE** transport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AI Agent Manager has previously offered an MCP server that used the "HTTP with SSE" transport.
```

> The **HTTP with SSE** transport has been superseeded by the **Streamable HTTP** transport in the MCP specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The "HTTP with SSE" transport has been superseded by the "Streamable HTTP" transport in the MCP specification.
```

> Because of that we no longer offer the **HTTP with SSE** transport and only provide the MCP server via **Streamable HTTP**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, we no longer offer the "HTTP with SSE" transport and only provide the MCP server via "Streamable HTTP".
```

> External clients that made direct use of the MCP server need to adjust for the changed transport and endpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
External clients that made direct use of the MCP server may need to adjust for the changed transport and endpoint.
```
